# uCML Interpreter and Runtime Environment

uCML is a structural / functional programming language that was assigned to be implemented by my university compiler course teacher. I had a dream to build a real working programming language since when I was a school kid just got introduced to computer programming through PHP based web development. As I have a very curious mind, I never stopped wondering how things work in the electronics world. How a computer works, how programming works, this sort of question used to torture me until I got the answers and got satisfied by the answers. So, I took it into my own hands to build a working interpreter to understand how the it really works.

# Build
Since I use windows as my primary operating system in my personal work place, I had to download the GNU implementation for windows. You need these things in your system to build the interpreter from source code:-
1. flex
2. bison
3. gcc
4. make

The build process is farely simple. It's just a "make" command away:-

    $ make

After running this command you'll get an executable called **"uc.exe"** on Windows and **"uc"** on Unix/Linux under the **src** folder. I've tested it on Windows (7 32/64) and Linux (WSL Ubuntu 16.04). It works seemlessly in both systems. It is recommended to copy the executable binary into the **"build"** directory for better testing (more on this later), the windows executable is already provided there .

## Running Programs

Example programs including all kind of programming features implemented by the interpreter has been provided under the **"test"** directory. Features implemented so far:-
1. Statements
2. Variables
3. Expressions (mathematical/logical/function calling etc.)
4. Control (If-else)
5. Loop (for-to-by)
6. Function declaration and calling
7. Anonymous function (I don't know the purpose, but my teacher insisted, so I did)


You can run the programs by calling the **uc** executable with program file name. For example:-

    $ cd base_dir
    $ "./build/uc" test/factorial.ucml
    10      
    9       
    8       
    7       
    6       
    5       
    4       
    3       
    2       
    1       
    0       
    3628800 
    

## Test Cases

You may find running all the programs one by one a cumbersome task. Since I'm more fluent in Java than I am in C, I made a Test Runner program **"TestRunner.java"** (compiled class file is also provided in the base directory) that takes **"build/uc"** as the interpreter and uses **"test/\*"** as input programs and runs all the programs one by one. It also echoes the output generated by each ucml programs from test directory to the console.

    $ java TestRunner
    >> Running: ./uc test/anonymous_function.ucml
    << Success!                                  
    180                                          
                                                 
    >> Running: ./uc test/basic_everything.ucml  
    << Success!                                  
    19                                           
    4456                                         
    751                                          
    41                                           
    180                                          
    1                                            
    0                                            
    1                                            
    1                                            
    0                                            
    0                                            
    0   
    .....

                                         
## Comment

This is a buggy and toy program made solely for learning purpose. Never use it on production. Not even at your own risk.